11. From the Havermarkt go straight into the Torenstraat. Immediately past the church on the left at Kerkplein.

In 1969 the Breda Tower Festival was held in joy at the end of the restoration period of the Great Tower, which took 25 years.
Also, between 1995 and 1997 ,the beauty of the Great Church of Our Lady was temporarily hidden behind scaffolding.After almost three years, the church was again restored from the inside.
The restoration was divided into three phases. In the first phase included activities such as the hosing of the exterior, repairing the joints and the stained-glass windows and the inside painting. The second phase included the floor heating and in the third phase the rest of the church was restored.
Research has firmly established the construction of the church began in 1410. In the sixteenth century the church on the south and on the north side extended with several chapels, the current vestry and pastern intercourse.
The tower was completed in 1509. In ??1468 the first stone was laid, so the construction period took in total around forty years or more. The spire burned down in 1694. In the years later the spire was rebuilt with wood which was donated by the governor King William. In 1702 the cock was again placed. It is clear that the Lords of Breda, notably the Nassau's, have had a significant contribution to the birth of the Great Church. The Lords of Breda are also buried there; Their tombs are true historical art showpieces. Prince William of Orange, who was killed in Delft in1584 , had a splendid tomb reserved of under the tomb of Count Engelbert at the Great Church as a final resting place. But his remains and those after him are  next to the Orange princes which are now ordered inDelft Earth.

---

Have a walk from the Square back to the Torenstraat and turn left. The first street on your right is the Lange Brugstraat.
At the corner of Torenstraat and Lange Brugstraat there's still a seventeenth century gable from 1600 and the sign which indicates the old name Ft. schaekbort (for 1727  Het Checkerboard) of this piece. Take the time to admire the beautiful wall anchors.