18. Walk through the gate back to the Grand Place and turn left.
The second street on the left is St. Janstraat. Take this road.

At the corner of the Halstraat / St Janstraat we face the building with the
pillars: the garrison command. Previously, the building "guardroom"
was mentioned. Before that it was a guardroom, the St.
John's Chapel  stood on this spot behind the buildings of the Knights of St John.
The members of this order looked after the sick and the poor.
The street name recalls the Knights of St John. There was a great fire in the chapel in 1534.

The St. Janstraat was once also called Lace Street,probably due to the fact that the huydvetters or tanners excercised  their profession
in the St. Janstraat.
On your right is the Janstraat in St. Anthony of Padua Church, a
Public Works which was remarkably performed  on a rich church. 
This church was constructed in 1836 as the first Catholic church after the hidden church period.
In 1853 it became the first bishop church (cathedral) of the
new diocese of Breda. The seat of the Bishop of Breda was returned after an
absence of 32 years at the beginning of 2001 to the Anthony Church
which thus acquired the status of cathedral again. 
On the façade clearly there are three types of antique columns to see. 
From bottom to top:
Doric, Ionic and Corinthian columns. The image above the entrance states
'Religion'. It falls directly within on the beautiful wooden pulpit
The life of H. Anthony is  depicted in its different panels.
Just ahead are remnants or just memories of two
very distinguished mansions, the House Ocrum, where, until 1994 the Academy
St. Joost was located and also the House Hersbeeck, which is now presbytery.
In 1667,  English envoys, who participated in the
Peace negotiations in Breda  stayed in both houses. The deputies of the State Council
used the building (No. 16) when they were in town on mission,
but King Louis Napoleon has stayed. The bay window of this property
had a controlling function: the priest could see very well who
went to church and who didn't.
The House Ocrum (No. 18) was a Roman orphanage from 1848 till 1952. You can still see the cobblestones of the 19th century façade of the
academy building. The red color of this house (after
restoration applied) will pass through the course of the
years as a beautiful gray red color.