10. At the Vishal, take the Vismarktstraat, this street leads to the Havermarkt.

By the looks of the fishmarket, it still indicates a sense of lively trade of fish dating back from 1725 when it was used.  We walk through the Vismarktstraat to Havermarkt.
Today, this market is since the sixties an the entertainment center in Breda.
The name Havermarkt despite the fact that the grain is not necessarily here, there was trade going on at this market. 
However, farmers in the area did sell lots of vegetables, eggs and butter. In the seventeenth century, there was also a leathermarket.
The former names of this square Groenmarkt Botermarkt and had given a better indication of the types of jobs and speciality markets.

Around 1490, this was built as a broadening of the Visserstraat. 
Those whol grabbed a beer at this delightful little square in the summer discovered very quickly that it is the most beautiful view you could get of the tower of the great Church.
From here you can also see a pretty broad base of that tower.
There is much to see in this square. At the left corner of Market and Oats Reigerstraat you can see the house 'The Arent',which was built around 1490.  It now has a  seventeenth century stepped gable and was completely restored in 1966 and converted into a restaurant.
Ot the other side of the Havermarkt there are two properties that deserve you should visit. Havermarkt number 5 dates back from the sixteenth and seventeenth century. "The Vogelstruys' on Havermarkt 21 is a remarkable seventeenth century building with a high, non symmetrical gable. Also, over the centuries, this house has had many functions. For example it was a house for refugiees for the Sisters of Catharinadal in the seventeenth century.

Four copies were made of the statue 'The Troubadour' at the end of the Havermarkt shines. The other three were revealed in Diest, Orange and Dillenburg, the twin cities of Breda in 1963, the established Union of Orange City.
A little further into the Visserstraat (No. 31), on the right side stands a fine brick house from the 17th century with the remains of a sixteenth-century Gothic house, called the Three Moors.

